Codebook for output of run_analysis.R contained in tidyDataProj
==========

The following is a description of the data contained in tidyMeansTable.txt,
which is the output of the createTidyData function in the run_analysis.R
script. The output is of the form .txt, and can easily be loaded into R
using read.table with header = TRUE.

The original (raw) data was taken from 30 subjects while each subject
performed one of six activities. A variety of measurements were taken, and the
raw data contains many statistics of these measurements. We included the
variables containing key words "mean" or "std" (not case sensitive) in our
cleaning / analysis. We then take the average of each of these statistics by
subject and activity, and the output of this is tidyMeansTable.txt.

As there were 30 subjects and six activities, tidyMeansTable.txt contains 180
observations (rows). The subject and activity of each observation are the first
two variables (columns) in tidyMeansTable.txt, respectively, and the following
86 variables are those from the raw data (which we have averaged by subject and
activity). We quote the following from features_info.txt, which can be found in
the main folder of the unpackaged data, to describe the variables 2-88 in
tidyMeansTable.txt:

Quote:

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and
gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals
(prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then
they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth
filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the
acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration
signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth
filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in
time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the
magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the
Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag,
tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals
producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag,
fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain
signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each
pattern:
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation

...

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample.
These are used on the angle() variable:

gravityMean
tBodyAccMean
tBodyAccJerkMean
tBodyGyroMean
tBodyGyroJerkMean

End quote.

It is worth emphasizing that the values in the table tidyMeansTable.txt are the
average values (by subject and activity) of the data described above.